
Keyboard setup for a WASD custom APL keyboard
by Blake McBride (blake1024@gmail.com)
for use with xkbcomp and X11

xkbcomp is the more modern keyboard configuration utility under X11.
Unlike xmodmap, it allows significantly better control over key
combinations.

WASD

WASD is a company that produces custom keyboards of extremely high
quality.  They are located at:

    http://www.wasdkeyboards.com

 I created a custom keyboard.  This is a vector graphics file
 specifying exactly what characters appear on each key.  The
 layout file I gave them is in the file named:

     wasd-inkscape-104-paths.svg.zip

 That file is supplied as a zip file.  You will need to unzip it to
 use or submit it to WASD.

 That file can be provided to WASD as-is, or you may modify it with
 the inkscape program.  If you modify the layout, you will have to
 modify the corresponding mapping file (apl.wasd.kbd) too.

 The keyboard I used was:
 	WASD V2 104-key Custom Mechanical Keyboard
	Switch type: cherry MX Brown
	0.2mm sound dampeners
	white keys (easier to see)
	light gray modifiers
	Centered function keys
 	OS key - Blank (I called it "Meta" in the layout (OS neutral)


USAGE

I would suggest creating a map of your pre-exiting keyboard setup
first so that you can easily go back to it.  The following command
will accomplish that:

  xkbcomp  :0  normal.xkb

Switching to the custom APL keyboard configuration is done with:

  xkbcomp  apl.wasd.xkb  :0

Switching back to your original keyboard config is done with:

  xkbcomp  normal.xkb  :0

ABOUT THE CONFIGURATION

All keys should work as they originally did except when the Right-Alt
key or the Right-Alt-Shift key combination is used.  Key combinations
utilizing the Left-Alt or Left-Control keys are unaffected.

All characters shown in black on the keyboard work like any normal
keyboard.  The characters shown in orange are accessed with the use of
the Right-Alt, and Shift-Right-Alt keys.  All keys are mapped exactly
as shown on the keyboard.

Orange characters on each key are accessed with the Right-Alt and
Shift-Right-Alt keys.  If there is only one orange character on the
top of the key, it is accessed with the Right-Alt key.  If there are
two orange characters on the top of the key, the bottom one is
accessed with the Right-Alt key, and the top one is accessed with the
Shift-Right-Alt keys.

